docs: getting started tutorial - Monitor K8s logs with Loki (#15829)
grafana/loki: docs/sources/send-data/k8s-monitoring-helm/_index.md

---
title: Kubernetes Monitoring Helm
menuTitle: Kubernetes Monitoring Helm
weight: 300
description: Learn how to collect and store logs from your Kubernetes cluster using Loki.
killercoda:
  title: Kubernetes Monitoring Helm
  description: Learn how to collect and store logs from your Kubernetes cluster using Loki.
  backend:
    imageid: kubernetes-kubeadm-2nodes
---

<!-- INTERACTIVE page intro.md START -->

# Kubernetes Monitoring Helm

One of the primary use cases for Loki is to collect and store logs from your [Kubernetes cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/). These logs fall into three categories:

> 1. [**Pod logs**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/#basic-logging-in-kubernetes): Logs generated by containers otherwise known as logs running in your cluster.

Reviewer: Should the second part of the sentence be "Pods running in your cluster"?   You refer to "pod logs" down at line 25....

```suggestion
1. [**Pod logs**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/#basic-logging-in-kubernetes): Logs generated by containers, otherwise known as logs running in your cluster.
```

2. [**Kubernetes Events**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/cluster-resources/event-v1/): Logs generated by the Kubernetes API server.
3. [**Node logs**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/#using-a-node-logging-agent): Logs generated by the nodes in your cluster.

{{< figure max-width="75%" src="/media/docs/loki/loki-k8s-logs.png" caption="Scraping Kubernetes Logs" alt="Scraping Kubernetes Logs" >}}

In this tutorial, we will deploy [Loki](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/get-started/overview/) and the [Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/kubernetes-monitoring/) to collect two of these log types: Pod logs and Kubernetes events. We will also deploy [Grafana](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/) to visualize these logs.

## Things to know

Before you begin, here are some things you should know:

> * **Loki**: Loki can run in a single binary mode or as a distributed system. In this tutorial, we will deploy Loki as a single binary, otherwise known as monolithic mode. Loki can be vertically scaled in this mode depending on the amount of logs you are collecting. Grafana Labs recommends running Loki in a distributed/microservice mode for production use cases to monitor high volumes of logs.

Reviewer: Amount is for things you can't count.  We can count logs.
```suggestion
* **Loki**: Loki can run in a single binary mode or as a distributed system. In this tutorial, we will deploy Loki as a single binary, otherwise known as monolithic mode. Loki can be vertically scaled in this mode depending on the number of logs you are collecting. Grafana Labs recommends running Loki in a distributed/microservice mode for production use cases to monitor high volumes of logs.
```

![Interactive](/media/docs/loki/loki-ile.svg)

Provide feedback, report bugs, and raise issues in the [Grafana Killercoda repository](https://github.com/grafana/killercoda).
{{< /admonition >}}
<!-- INTERACTIVE ignore END -->

<!-- INTERACTIVE page intro.md END -->

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step1.md START -->

## Step 1: Create the `meta` and `prod` namespaces

The K8s Monitoring Helm chart will monitor two namespaces: `meta` and `prod`:
- `meta` namespace: This namespace will be used to deploy Loki, Grafana, and Alloy.
- `prod` namespace: This namespace will be used to deploy the sample application that will generate logs.

Create the `meta` and `prod` namespaces by running the following commands:

```bash
kubectl create namespace meta && kubectl create namespace prod
```

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step1.md END -->

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step2.md START -->

## Step 2: Add the Grafana Helm repository

All three helm charts (Loki, Grafana, and the Kubernetes Monitoring Helm) are available in the Grafana Helm repository. Add the Grafana Helm repository by running the following command:

```bash
helm repo add grafana https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts && helm repo update
```

> It's recommended to also run `helm repo update` to ensure you have the latest version of the charts.

Author: Does this work better?
```suggestion
As well as adding the repo to our local helm list, we also run `helm repo update` to ensure you have the latest version of the charts.
```

## Step 3: Clone the tutorial repository

Clone the tutorial repository by running the following command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/grafana/alloy-scenarios.git && cd alloy-scenarios/k8s-logs
```

> As well as cloning the repository, we have also changed directories to `alloy-scenarios/k8s-logs`. **The rest of this tutorial assumes you are in this directory.**

Reviewer: At this point in the sandbox, I am NOT in alloy-scenarios/k8s-logs.  I did a little snooping around to find the right directory, but this needs to be fixed.

Author: hmm, that is odd the above command should clone the repo and then move your terminal into that directly with the 
`cd alloy-scenarios/k8s-logs`. I shall separate out the commands :)

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step2.md END -->

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step3.md START -->

## Step 4: Deploy Loki

Grafana Loki will be used to store our collected logs. In this tutorial we will deploy Loki with a minimal footprint and use the default storage backend provided by the Loki Helm chart, MinIO.

{{< docs/ignore >}}

> > **Note**: Due to the resource constraints of the Kubernetes cluster running in the playground, we are deploying Loki using a custom values file. This values file reduces the resource requirements of Loki. This turns off features such as; cache, Loki Canary, and runs Loki with limited resources. This can take up to **1 minute** to complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: Due to the resource constraints of the Kubernetes cluster running in the playground, we are deploying Loki using a custom values file. This values file reduces the resource requirements of Loki. This turns off features such as cache and Loki Canary, and runs Loki with limited resources. This can take up to **1 minute** to complete.
```

As before the command also includes a `values` file that specifies the configuration for Grafana. There are two important configurations attributes to take note of:

1. `adminUser` & `adminPassword`: These are the credentials you will use to log in to Grafana. The values are `admin` and `adminadminadmin` respectively. The recommended practice is to either use a Kubernetes secret or allow Grafana to generate a password for you. For more details on how to configure the Grafana Helm refer to the Grafana Helm [documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/helm/).

2. `datasources`: This section of the configuration allows for the definition of data sources that Grafana will use. In this tutorial, we will define a data source for Loki. The data source is defined as follows:

   ```yaml
    datasources:
      datasources.yaml:
            apiVersion: 1
            datasources:
            - name: Loki
              type: loki
              access: proxy
              orgId: 1
              url: http://loki-gateway.meta.svc.cluster.local:80
              basicAuth: false
              isDefault: false
              version: 1
              editable: false
   ```

>   This configuration defines a data source named `Loki` that Grafana will use to query logs stored in Loki. The `url` attribute specifies the URL of the Loki gateway. The Loki gateway is a service that sits in front of the Loki API and provides a single endpoint for ingesting and querying logs. The URL is in the format `http://loki-gateway.meta.svc.cluster.local:80`. The `loki-gateway` service is created by the Loki Helm chart and is used to query logs stored in Loki. **If you choose to deploy Loki in a different namespace or with a different name, you will need to update the `url` attribute accordingly.**

Author: Good idea I will change this in description but I won't in the config sample itself as we are explicitly writing to the loki gateway which is hosted in the meta nampace

  collector: alloy-logs
  namespaces:
    - meta
    - prod

nodeLogs:
  enabled: false

podLogs:
  enabled: true
  gatherMethod: kubernetesApi
  collector: alloy-logs
  namespaces:
    - meta
    - prod

# Collectors
alloy-singleton:
  enabled: false

alloy-metrics:
  enabled: false

alloy-logs:
  enabled: true

alloy-profiles:
  enabled: false

alloy-receiver:
  enabled: false
```

To break down the configuration file:
* Define the cluster name as `meta-monitoring-tutorial`. This a static label that will be attached to all logs collected by the Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart.
* Define a destination named `loki` that will be used to forward logs to Loki. The `url` attribute specifies the URL of the Loki gateway. **If you choose to deploy Loki in a different namespace or in a different location entirley, you will need to update the `url` attribute accordingly.**
* Enable the collection of cluster events and pod logs:
  * `collector`: specifies which collector to use to collect logs. In this case, we are using the `alloy-logs` collector.
  * `namespaces`: specifies the namespaces to collect logs from. In this case, we are collecting logs from the `meta` and `prod` namespaces.

> * Disable the collection of node logs for the purpose of this tutorial as it requires the mounting of `/var/log/journal`. This is out of scope for this tutorial.

Author: On it

* Lastly, define the role of the collector. The Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart will deploy only what you need and nothing more. In this case, we are telling the Helm chart to only deploy Alloy with the capability to collect logs. If you need to collect K8s metrics, traces, or continuous profiling data, you can enable the respective collectors.

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step4.md END -->

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step5.md START -->

## Step 7: Accessing Grafana

To access Grafana, you will need to port-forward the Grafana service to your local machine. To do this, run the following command:

```bash
export POD_NAME=$(kubectl get pods --namespace meta -l "app.kubernetes.io/name=grafana,app.kubernetes.io/instance=grafana" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}") && \
kubectl --namespace meta port-forward $POD_NAME 3000 --address 0.0.0.0
```

{{< admonition type="tip" >}}
This will make your terminal unusable until you stop the port-forwarding process. To do this, press `Ctrl + C`.
{{< /admonition >}}

> This command will port-forward the Grafana service to your local machine on port `3000`. You can access Grafana by navigating to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser. The default credentials are `admin` and `adminadminadmin`.  One of the first places you should visit is Explore Logs which will provide a no-code view of the logs being stored in Loki:

Author: hmm yeah and with the new name being drill down. Could we work with this instead:
```markdown
Drill Downs provide a query less experience to restrive your logs stored in Loki
```

> This command will port-forward the Grafana service to your local machine on port `3000`. You can access Grafana by navigating to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser. The default credentials are `admin` and `adminadminadmin`.  One of the first places you should visit is Explore Logs which will provide a no-code view of the logs being stored in Loki:

Reviewer: When in doubt, use the description from the Explore Logs docs:

"Explore Logs lets you automatically visualize and explore your logs without having to write queries."

I think they're still hashing out the nitty-gritty details for the renaming, so for now, let's stick with Explore Logs.

> [http://localhost:3000/a/grafana-lokiexplore-app](http://localhost:3000/a/grafana-lokiexplore-app)

Author: on it

```bash
export POD_NAME=$(kubectl get pods --namespace meta -l "app.kubernetes.io/name=alloy-logs,app.kubernetes.io/instance=k8s" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}") && \
kubectl --namespace meta port-forward $POD_NAME 12345 --address 0.0.0.0
```

{{< admonition type="tip" >}}
This will make your terminal unusable until you stop the port-forwarding process. To do this, press `Ctrl + C`.
{{< /admonition >}}

This command will port-forward the Alloy service to your local machine on port `12345`. You can access the Alloy UI by navigating to [http://localhost:12345](http://localhost:12345) in your browser.

{{< figure max-width="100%" src="/media/docs/loki/k8s-logs-alloy-ui.png" caption="Grafana Alloy UI" alt="Grafana Alloy UI" >}}
<!-- INTERACTIVE page step5.md END -->

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step6.md START -->

## Step 9: Adding a sample application to `prod`

> Lastly, lets deploy a sample application to the `prod` namespace that will generate some logs. To deploy the sample application run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, lets deploy a sample application to the `prod` namespace that will generate some logs. To deploy the sample application run the following command:
```

```bash

> helm install tempo grafana/tempo-distributed -n prod

Reviewer: Received error message after running this command
"Error: INSTALLATION FAILED: cannot re-use a name that is still in use"

Author: Have you already run this step before? As helm won't alloy you to deploy the same name twice 
<img width="715" alt="Screenshot 2025-02-04 at 09 54 31" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7a88439a-afd4-4bb4-8fbe-4202aae230a6" />

```

This will deploy a default version of Grafana Tempo to the `prod` namespace. Tempo is a distributed tracing backend that is used to store and query traces. Normally Tempo would sit alongside Loki and Grafana in the `meta` namespace, but for the purpose of this tutorial, we will pretend this is the primary application generating logs.

Once deployed lets expose Grafana once more:

```bash
export POD_NAME=$(kubectl get pods --namespace meta -l "app.kubernetes.io/name=grafana,app.kubernetes.io/instance=grafana" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}") && \
kubectl --namespace meta port-forward $POD_NAME 3000 --address 0.0.0.0
```

and navigate to [http://localhost:3000/a/grafana-lokiexplore-app](http://localhost:3000/a/grafana-lokiexplore-app) to view Grafana Tempo logs.

{{< figure max-width="100%" src="/media/docs/loki/k8s-logs-tempo.png" caption="Label view of Tempo logs" alt="Label view of Tempo logs" >}}

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step6.md END -->

<!-- INTERACTIVE page finish.md START -->

## Conclusion

> In this tutorial, you learned how to deploy Loki, Grafana, and the Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart to collect and store logs from a Kubernetes cluster. We have deployed a minimal test version of each of these helm charts to demonstrate how quickly you can get started with Loki. It now worth exploring each of these helm charts in more detail to understand how to scale them to meet your production needs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you learned how to deploy Loki, Grafana, and the Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart to collect and store logs from a Kubernetes cluster. We have deployed a minimal test version of each of these Helm charts to demonstrate how quickly you can get started with Loki. It is now worth exploring each of these Helm charts in more detail to understand how to scale them to meet your production needs:
```

> * [Loki Helm](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/setup/install/helm/)
> * [Grafana Helm](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/helm/)
> * [Kubernetes Monitoring Helm](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/kubernetes-monitoring/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Loki Helm chart](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/setup/install/helm/)
* [Grafana Helm chart](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/helm/)
* [Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/kubernetes-monitoring/)
```

3. [**Node logs**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/#using-a-node-logging-agent): Logs generated by the nodes in your cluster.

{{< figure max-width="75%" src="/media/docs/loki/loki-k8s-logs.png" caption="Scraping Kubernetes Logs" alt="Scraping Kubernetes Logs" >}}

In this tutorial, we will deploy [Loki](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/get-started/overview/) and the [Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/kubernetes-monitoring/) to collect two of these log types: Pod logs and Kubernetes events. We will also deploy [Grafana](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/) to visualize these logs.

## Things to know

Before you begin, here are some things you should know:

* **Loki**: Loki can run in a single binary mode or as a distributed system. In this tutorial, we will deploy Loki as a single binary, otherwise known as monolithic mode. Loki can be vertically scaled in this mode depending on the number of logs you are collecting. Grafana Labs recommends running Loki in a distributed/microservice mode for production use cases to monitor high volumes of logs.

> * **Deployment**: You will deploy Loki, Grafana, and Alloy (As part of the Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart) in the `meta` namespace of your Kubernetes cluster. Make sure you have the necessary permissions to create resources in this namespace. These pods will also require resources to run, so consider the amount of capacity your nodes have available. It also possible to just deploy the Kubernetes monitoring Helm chart (since it has a minimal resource footprint) within your cluster and write logs to an external Loki instance or Grafana Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Deployment**: You will deploy Loki, Grafana, and Alloy (as part of the Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart) in the `meta` namespace of your Kubernetes cluster. Make sure you have the necessary permissions to create resources in this namespace. These pods will also require resources to run, so consider the amount of capacity your nodes have available. It also possible to just deploy the Kubernetes monitoring Helm chart (since it has a minimal resource footprint) within your cluster and write logs to an external Loki instance or Grafana Cloud.
```

{{< /docs/ignore >}}

To deploy Loki run the following command:

<!-- INTERACTIVE ignore START -->
```bash
helm install --values loki-values.yml loki grafana/loki -n meta
```
<!-- INTERACTIVE ignore END -->

{{< docs/ignore >}}

```bash
helm install --values killercoda/loki-values.yml loki grafana/loki -n meta
```
{{< /docs/ignore >}}

This command will deploy Loki in the `meta` namespace. The command also includes a `values` file that specifies the configuration for Loki. For more details on how to configure the Loki Helm chart refer to the Loki Helm [documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/<LOKI_VERSION>/setup/install/helm).

## Deploy Grafana

Next we will deploy Grafana to the `meta` namespace. You will use Grafana to visualize the logs stored in Loki. To deploy Grafana run the following command:

```bash
helm install --values grafana-values.yml grafana grafana/grafana --namespace meta
```

> As before the command also includes a `values` file that specifies the configuration for Grafana. There are two important configuration attributes to take note of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As before, the command also includes a `values` file that specifies the configuration for Grafana. There are two important configuration attributes to take note of:
```

   ```yaml
    datasources:
      datasources.yaml:
            apiVersion: 1
            datasources:
            - name: Loki
              type: loki
              access: proxy
              orgId: 1
              url: http://loki-gateway.meta.svc.cluster.local:80
              basicAuth: false
              isDefault: false
              version: 1
              editable: false
   ```
  This configuration defines a data source named `Loki` that Grafana will use to query logs stored in Loki. The `url` attribute specifies the URL of the Loki gateway. The Loki gateway is a service that sits in front of the Loki API and provides a single endpoint for ingesting and querying logs. The URL is in the format `http://loki-gateway.<NAMESPACE>.svc.cluster.local:80`. The `loki-gateway` service is created by the Loki Helm chart and is used to query logs stored in Loki. **If you choose to deploy Loki in a different namespace or with a different name, you will need to update the `url` attribute accordingly.**

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step3.md END -->

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step4.md START -->

> ## Deploy the Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart

Reviewer: In Killercoda, for some reason this page opened at the bottom of the page and I had to scroll up.  Not sure if that's a setting, a bug, or because there is so much content on this page?

Author: oh that is weird! Let me take a look at that and I will split the stages further

The Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart is used for gathering, scraping, and forwarding Kubernetes telemetry data to a Grafana stack. This includes the ability to collect metrics, logs, traces, and continuous profiling data. The scope of this tutorial is to deploy the Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart to collect pod logs and Kubernetes events. 

To deploy the Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart run the following command:

```bash

> helm install --values ./k8s-monitoring-values.yml k8s grafana/k8s-monitoring -n meta 

Reviewer: I hit another error.  This was the first time I ran this command (so it's not me this time!).

`controlplane $ helm install --values ./k8s-monitoring-values.yml k8s grafana/k8s-monitoring -n meta 
Error: INSTALLATION FAILED: execution error at (k8s-monitoring/templates/validations.yaml:10:6): Pod Logs feature should not mount /var/log when using the "kubernetesApi" gather method.
Please set:
alloy-logs:
  alloy:
    mounts:
      varlog: false`

Author: hmmm this looks like a bug introduced by the k8s helm let me check this

---

> title: Kubernetes Monitoring Helm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Kubernetes Monitoring Helm tutorial
```

menuTitle: Kubernetes Monitoring Helm
weight: 300
description: Learn how to collect and store logs from your Kubernetes cluster using Loki.
killercoda:
  title: Kubernetes Monitoring Helm
  description: Learn how to collect and store logs from your Kubernetes cluster using Loki.
  backend:
    imageid: kubernetes-kubeadm-2nodes
---

<!-- INTERACTIVE page intro.md START -->

> # Kubernetes Monitoring Helm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Kubernetes Monitoring Helm tutorial
```

![Interactive](/media/docs/loki/loki-ile.svg)

Provide feedback, report bugs, and raise issues in the [Grafana Killercoda repository](https://github.com/grafana/killercoda).
{{< /admonition >}}
<!-- INTERACTIVE ignore END -->

<!-- INTERACTIVE page intro.md END -->

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step1.md START -->

## Create the `meta` and `prod` namespaces

The K8s Monitoring Helm chart will monitor two namespaces: `meta` and `prod`:
- `meta` namespace: This namespace will be used to deploy Loki, Grafana, and Alloy.
- `prod` namespace: This namespace will be used to deploy the sample application that will generate logs.

Create the `meta` and `prod` namespaces by running the following command:

```bash
kubectl create namespace meta && kubectl create namespace prod
```

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step1.md END -->

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step2.md START -->

## Add the Grafana Helm repository

All three Helm charts (Loki, Grafana, and the Kubernetes Monitoring Helm) are available in the Grafana Helm repository. Add the Grafana Helm repository by running the following command:

```bash
helm repo add grafana https://grafana.github.io/helm-charts && helm repo update
```

> As well as adding the repo to our local helm list, we also run `helm repo update` to ensure you have the latest version of the charts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As well as adding the repo to your local helm list, you should also run `helm repo update` to ensure you have the latest version of the charts.
```

## Clone the tutorial repository

Clone the tutorial repository by running the following command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/grafana/alloy-scenarios.git
```

Then change directories to the `alloy-scenarios/k8s/logs` directory:

```bash
cd alloy-scenarios/k8s/logs
```

> **The rest of this tutorial assumes you are in this directory.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The rest of this tutorial assumes you are in the `alloy-scenarios/k8s/logs` directory.**
```

{{< /docs/ignore >}}

To deploy Loki run the following command:

<!-- INTERACTIVE ignore START -->
```bash
helm install --values loki-values.yml loki grafana/loki -n meta
```
<!-- INTERACTIVE ignore END -->

{{< docs/ignore >}}

```bash
helm install --values killercoda/loki-values.yml loki grafana/loki -n meta
```
{{< /docs/ignore >}}

This command will deploy Loki in the `meta` namespace. The command also includes a `values` file that specifies the configuration for Loki. For more details on how to configure the Loki Helm chart refer to the Loki Helm [documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/<LOKI_VERSION>/setup/install/helm).

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step3.md END -->

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step4.md START -->

## Deploy Grafana

Next we will deploy Grafana to the `meta` namespace. You will use Grafana to visualize the logs stored in Loki. To deploy Grafana run the following command:

```bash
helm install --values grafana-values.yml grafana grafana/grafana --namespace meta
```

As before, the command also includes a `values` file that specifies the configuration for Grafana. There are two important configuration attributes to take note of:

> 1. `adminUser` & `adminPassword`: These are the credentials you will use to log in to Grafana. The values are `admin` and `adminadminadmin` respectively. The recommended practice is to either use a Kubernetes secret or allow Grafana to generate a password for you. For more details on how to configure the Grafana Helm chart, refer to the Grafana Helm [documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/helm/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `adminUser` and `adminPassword`: These are the credentials you will use to log in to Grafana. The values are `admin` and `adminadminadmin` respectively. The recommended practice is to either use a Kubernetes secret or allow Grafana to generate a password for you. For more details on how to configure the Grafana Helm chart, refer to the Grafana Helm [documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/helm/).
```

> 1. `adminUser` and `adminPassword`: These are the credentials you will use to log in to Grafana. The values are `admin` and `adminadminadmin` respectively. The recommended practice is to either use a Kubernetes secret or allow Grafana to generate a password for you. For more details on how to configure the Grafana Helm chart, refer to the Grafana Helm [documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/helm/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `adminUser` and `adminPassword`: These are the credentials you will use to log in to Grafana. The values are `admin` and `adminadminadmin` respectively. The recommended practice is to either use a Kubernetes secret or allow Grafana to generate a password for you. For more details on how to configure the Grafana Helm chart, refer to the Grafana Helm [documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/installation/helm/).
```

```bash
export POD_NAME=$(kubectl get pods --namespace meta -l "app.kubernetes.io/name=grafana,app.kubernetes.io/instance=grafana" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}") && \
kubectl --namespace meta port-forward $POD_NAME 3000 --address 0.0.0.0
```

{{< admonition type="tip" >}}
This will make your terminal unusable until you stop the port-forwarding process. To stop the process, press `Ctrl + C`.
{{< /admonition >}}

This command will port-forward the Grafana service to your local machine on port `3000`. 

You can now access Grafana by navigating to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser. The default credentials are `admin` and `adminadminadmin`. 

One of the first places you should visit is Explore Logs which lets you automatically visualize and explore your logs without having to write queries:
[http://localhost:3000/a/grafana-lokiexplore-app](http://localhost:3000/a/grafana-lokiexplore-app)

{{< figure max-width="100%" src="/media/docs/loki/k8s-logs-explore-logs.png" caption="Explore Logs view of K8s logs" alt="Explore Logs view of K8s logs" >}}

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step6.md END -->

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step7.md START -->

> ## (Optional): View the Alloy UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## (Optional) View the Alloy UI
```

> The Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart deploys Grafana Alloy to collect and forward telemetry data from the Kubernetes cluster. The Helm is designed to abstract you from creating an Alloy configuration file. However if you would like to understand the pipeline you can view the Alloy UI. To access the Alloy UI, you will need to port-forward the Alloy service to your local machine. To do this, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart deploys Grafana Alloy to collect and forward telemetry data from the Kubernetes cluster. The Helm chart is designed to abstract you away from creating an Alloy configuration file. However if you would like to understand the pipeline you can view the Alloy UI. To access the Alloy UI, you will need to port-forward the Alloy service to your local machine. To do this, run the following command:
```

Once deployed lets expose Grafana once more:

```bash
export POD_NAME=$(kubectl get pods --namespace meta -l "app.kubernetes.io/name=grafana,app.kubernetes.io/instance=grafana" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}") && \
kubectl --namespace meta port-forward $POD_NAME 3000 --address 0.0.0.0
```

and navigate to [http://localhost:3000/a/grafana-lokiexplore-app](http://localhost:3000/a/grafana-lokiexplore-app) to view Grafana Tempo logs.

{{< figure max-width="100%" src="/media/docs/loki/k8s-logs-tempo.png" caption="Label view of Tempo logs" alt="Label view of Tempo logs" >}}

<!-- INTERACTIVE page step8.md END -->

<!-- INTERACTIVE page finish.md START -->

## Conclusion

In this tutorial, you learned how to deploy Loki, Grafana, and the Kubernetes Monitoring Helm chart to collect and store logs from a Kubernetes cluster. We have deployed a minimal test version of each of these Helm charts to demonstrate how quickly you can get started with Loki. It is now worth exploring each of these Helm charts in more detail to understand how to scale them to meet your production needs:

> * [Loki Helm chart](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/setup/install/helm/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Loki Helm chart](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/<LOKI_VERSION>/setup/install/helm/)
```

> * [Grafana Helm chart](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/helm/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Grafana Helm chart](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/installation/helm/)
```
